+++
identifier = "free-workshop-performing-for-the-camera"
source = "Berlin.de"
url = "https://www.berlin.de/tickets/bildung-vortraege/free-workshop-performing-for-the-camera-3d9318f5-f368-486c-827a-dab0b4727f33/"
type = "event"
title = "Free Workshop »PERFORMING FOR THE CAMERA«"
subtitle = "Karte"
description = "To perform for the camera is a fundamental part of queer representation and plays a central role when it comes to staging, documenting, and experimenting around concepts of identity. For the two Norwegian photographers Marie Høeg and Bolette Berg, photography was more than a technique; it was a safe space that created an intimate public sphere. In this workshop, we aim to explore how we can use the camera to investigate various forms of gendered identity and whether we can still be inspired by Marie and Bolette. The goal is for each workshop participant to develop and execute their own ideas towards a final performance in front of the camera that results in images that reflect their personal relation to gendered identity.This workshop main intent is to create safe spaces for queer, transgender and gender-fluid (young) adults and also for (young) adults who are curios to photography, and the idea of performing for the camera. The workshop is meant to be a meeting place to be curious and reflect on gender identity and gender roles as well as an opportunity to express oneself through creativity.The workshop PERFORMING FOR THE CAMERA at f³ – freiraum für fotografie is part of an ongoing collaboration between the photographer Paulina Tamara and Preus museum, which is Norway’s National Museum of Photography. The work produced will be presented in an upcoming exhibition in Norway.The lecturers:Paulina Tamara (CL/NO) is an artist based in Norway who holds an MFA Photography from the University for the Creative Arts (UCA), London. She mainly works with photography and ideas concerning gendercreativity, (queer) culture and performing for the camera. Her attention is in the space between femininity and masculinity. Paulina has an ever-going-and-growing archival project where she portraits the queer community in Norway for the series called The Others. She has lately also moved towards a performative practice exploring gender roles and sexuality.Paal Henrik Ekern (NO) holds an MFA in photography from Valand Academy at the University of Gothenburg and has previously worked as an independent artist and curator. He currently works as a diversity curator, educator, producer, and project coordinator for Preus museum which is Norway’s National Museum of Photography. In his work he manages the museums outreach projects which focuses on collecting and exhibiting contemporary documentation through workshops. The workshops often commissions artists to lead the projects together with the museum and the work produced are always created in close collaboration with the participants.Dates: 4. – 6. July 2024Time: 4 – 8 pmParticipants: max. 10 (young) adults, that want to explore gender indentity trough photographyPlace: f³ – freiraum für fotografie, Waldemarstraße 17, 10179 BerlinCost: Admission is freeLanguage: EnglishRegistration: Please do send a short email, with your background and motivation for participation to:"
image = "https://imgproxy.berlinonline.net/nqsVTfdg2Pal5ZMd9wLZdkBYD5drtouexIjpcMJs01Q/resizing_type:fill-down/width:480/height:360/gravity:fp:0.5:0.38/enlarge:1/q:70/cb:2024062208/aHR0cHM6Ly9wb3B1bGEtbWlkZGxld2FyZS5zMy5hbWF6b25hd3MuY29tL2JvLW1pZGRsZXdhcmUvYm8uYmRlX2NoYW5uZWwuZXZlbnQvaW1hZ2VzLzk0L2NiYWU4MmI4LTc1NzAtYWQzMy1mZjVlLTU0YjI3MjJjOThhYy5qcGc.jpg"
image_bucket = "https://storage.googleapis.com/fem-readup.appspot.com/free-workshop-performing-for-the-camera.webp"
start_date = "2024-07-04T16:00:00.000"
end_date = "2024-07-04T16:00:00.000"
category = "Bildung & Vorträge"
organizer = "f³ – freiraum für fotografie"
updated = "2024-06-22T06:35:27.000"
languages = []
[contact]
location_street = "Waldemarstraße 17"
location_city = " 10179 Berlin-Friedrichshain"
[location]
+++